The other Sunday school classes that are now becoming Wednesday evening classes will resume
next week.
And at that same time, I plan to return to what we were studying in our adult Sunday
school class back in March, and that's the book of Titus.
And so I plan to return to Titus chapter number two.
That's where we left off dealing with the subject matter of sound doctrine.
And we'll be looking at that for a number of weeks.
And so that will begin, or I should say resume next Wednesday evening, tonight, Mark chapter
number nine.
It's a passage of scripture that really the first portion of Mark chapter nine begins
with the record of the Mount of Transfiguration.
What an amazing event that this is, that God records for us in the gospels.
And we know that Peter, James, and John had the opportunity to follow the Lord Jesus Christ,
the Bible says, into a high mountain apart by themselves.
And it was there that he, the Lord Jesus Christ, was transfigured before them.
What an impact this must have had upon the disciples, Peter, James, and John, the experience
that this must have been for them.
We know that Peter would later discuss this very event when he's speaking about the fact
that we have a more sure word of prophecy.
But what he references prior to giving us that truth is that when he heard the voice
of God, that Mount of Transfiguration, and how powerful that must have been, how impactful
that must have been.
As you go through the passage of scripture, you find in verses 14 through 16 that they,
Jesus, and Peter, James, and John, they come down off of the mountain.
They're having some discussion.
They ask Jesus about Elijah first coming and so on and so forth.
And as they return, the Bible tells us in verses 14 through 16 that they now have this
great multitude has gathered together.
The scribes were there, the disciples were there, and the Bible tells us that the scribes
were questioning, really, the idea, as we look at the passages, they were disputing
with the disciples.
And that kind of leads us into the passage that we're going to study this evening.
We're going to be looking at verses 17 through 29, and I want to let you look at a phrase
here in verse number 28.
I'll give you the title, and then we'll go through the message this evening.
In verse number 28, the Bible says this, and when he was come into the house, this is speaking
of Jesus, and it says here that his disciples asked him privately.
Look at the question at the end of verse number 28, why could not we cast him out?
I've titled the message this evening, why couldn't we cast him out?
Why couldn't we cast him out?
I believe that as we examine this passage of Scripture, that we have the opportunity
to learn valuable lessons that we can implement in our lives.
In fact, we understand that truth with regard to any time we approach the Word of God, any
time we open the Scriptures.
I mentioned on Sunday how that we have that attitude of, Lord, speak to me.
We speak about Abraham and how that there in Genesis 13, and of course, on a number
of occasions, the Bible says that the Lord spoke or spake unto Abram.
Well, God wants to speak to us as we open his Word, and what a privilege and what a
blessing it is to hear the voice of God through the Word of God, and we come with that expectation
anticipating, Lord, what do you have for me?
And so as we look at the passage of Scripture, I want you to notice with me, first of all,
if you're taking notes, the inability of the disciples.
In verses 17 and 18, look at the passage that says here that Jesus comes and He says
in verse number 16, what question you with them?
And one of the multitude answered and said, Master, I have brought unto thee my son which
hath a dumb spirit, and wheresoever he taketh him, he teareth him, and he foameth and gnasheth
with his teeth and pineth away, and I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him
out, and they could not.
We see the inability of the disciples here in these first couple of verses of the text
in which we're studying this evening.
We find the father of this son brings his son to the disciples, and why does he bring
his son to the disciples of Jesus?
He has every expectation that the disciples are able to do something about the situation.
He brings his son to the disciples expecting that they're going to do something, that they're
going to be able to assist, that this, his son has this spirit that the Bible says here
that as he goes through here, he says he hath a dumb spirit.
We understand that as we get through the passage of Scripture how the Lord will work, but you
see here the inability of the disciples.
However, as we look at the inability of the disciples, it's important that we go back
a few chapters.
Turn back, keep your place here in Mark 9, but go back to Mark chapter number 6 if you
will.
In Mark chapter number 6, the Lord gives us some interesting insight as to the work of
his servants, the work of his disciples.
In verse number 7, notice what the Bible says, and he, Jesus, called unto him the twelve.
Who are the twelve?
The disciples, right?
We often refer to them as the disciples, and so we find over here in Mark chapter number
9, it's these disciples that this man has brought his son to, and they were unable,
the Bible tells us that they could not, the inability of the disciples.
But here in Mark 6 and verse number 7, that Jesus called the twelve, and he began to send
them forth by two and two.
Notice what the Bible says at the end of verse number 7, and gave them power over unclean
spirits.
Verse number 8, and commanded them that they should take nothing for their journey, save
a staff only, no strip, no bread, no money in their purse, but be shod with sandals and
not put on two coats.
Sit down and look at verse number 13, the Bible says, and they, who's they?
The disciples, right?
We follow along, we see what's happening, and they, the disciples, they cast out many
devils and anointed with oil many that were sick and healed them.
But now all of a sudden, we find in Mark chapter number 9, that this man brings his son to
the disciples of Jesus, expecting that they're going to be able to do something, and the
Bible tells us that I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him out, and they could
not.
The inability of the disciples.
As I think about this passage of Scripture, and I find what Jesus will say in verse number
19, when he says, oh, faithless generation.
You understand that he's speaking to his disciples there.
He's not speaking to this man, for the man has great faith.
He's speaking to the disciples, and he uses the phrase faithless, and so as I begin to
look at the inability of the disciples, I think the first lesson that we can learn from
this passage of Scripture is that we need to stop thinking that we can do anything apart
from the help of God.
Sometimes what happens, see there's a danger that in Mark chapter number 6, they went out
and God gave them power, and they cast out some devils.
And then all of a sudden, they think they can do it in of themselves, without relying
upon the Lord.
Listen, we've all been there.
If you've raised children, if you are raising children, you've taught your children how
to do something, and then they say, I can do it.
Joseph used to say all of the time as a toddler, he would say, I can do it.
He would say it like that, and he would, man, he wanted to do it, he wanted to try it, and
you knew as a parent, he wasn't ready, he couldn't do it.
And you helped him do it that first time, and that second time, and then what?
He wants to, I got it, I'm good.
And then what happens?
They fail.
Why?
Because you were there helping them.
You were there steadying their hand, or holding that bike, or whatever it was, right?
Now eventually, they may be able to, the analogy falls apart obviously at some point, but I
want you to understand this evening that there is a danger in the lives of God's people,
in the lives of us as His followers, to think that we can do the work of God without the
help of God.
We must be mindful of John 15.
When Jesus said to the disciples, I am the vine, ye are the branches, without Me, ye
can do nothing.
Sometimes we think, well, there's some things we can do.
I want to see what God can do through us.
And we find that we must work and serve in agreement with God, and we've got to come
to the place where we stop thinking that we can do anything apart from the help of God.
We see here the inability of the disciples.
I want you to notice as we continue through the passage, number two, the interaction that's
recorded.
The Bible begins to give us this interaction, and we find that, first of all, if I were
to take three parts of this interaction really that's captured for us between verses 19-27,
and really we could include verses 17 and 18 in there as well, I want you to notice
first of all the disappointed Savior.
Why do I say the disappointed Savior?
Notice what He says in verse number 19.
He answereth him and saith, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you?
How long shall I suffer you?
Bring him unto me.
I believe that as Jesus is speaking here in verse number 19 that He's really disappointed
not with this man, but He's disappointed with the disciples.
I want you to think about how many times the Lord had been teaching the disciples.
and how He had demonstrated His power
over and over in the lives of the disciples.
And He says, how is it that you do not remember?
How is it that you have no faith?
And, oh ye of little faith.
He uses those phraseologies
with the disciples on a number of occasions
throughout the Scriptures.
Why?
He's trying to teach them.
He's trying to prepare them.
He is investing in them,
understanding that they are going to be
the leaders of the church in the first century,
and He's preparing them for such a work.
And we find here that He's continuously instructing them,
and yet there are times,
just like there are times in our lives,
where we kind of go backwards, if you will.
We kind of forget some of the lessons
that we've been taught.
We forget to follow the instructions
that we have been given.
And so we see that the Lord here responds,
and then notice the distraught father.
We read in verses 17 and 18
how as there was this group that was there,
the Bible tells us in v. 14
that there was a great multitude about them
that the scribes were questioning,
disputing with them.
And you find that the Bible tells us
in v. 17 that one of the multitude
answered and said,
Master, I have brought unto Thee My Son
which hath a dumb spirit.
You see the intensity
and the seriousness of this man
on wanting to have some type of help
for his son.
He is distraught with the circumstances
that he's living with,
that he's dealing with.
It says in v. 20,
and they brought him unto Him,
that's this son that's possessed,
they bring to Jesus.
And when He, Jesus, saw him straightway,
the spirit tear Him,
and He fell on the ground
and wallowed foaming.
What a sight.
Can you as not only a father,
but just as an individual this evening,
can you imagine the heartache
that this father must have experienced
knowing that his son
was dealing with this situation.
And as we go through the passage,
we find that this was not just something
that happened yesterday.
Look at the Bible.
It tells us here that Jesus asked His Father,
how long is it ago since this came unto Him?
And the dad said, of a child.
Of a child.
This is a long-term situation.
Can't imagine the difficulty
the father goes on to explain in v. 22
some of what they endured.
And oft times, it hath cast Him into the fire
and into the waters.
Why?
To destroy Him.
But if thou canst do anything,
have compassion on us and help us.
You see, He's desperate.
You find here that the Bible tells us
that He was cast into the fire at times,
He was cast into the water at times
for the purpose of destroying.
We know that the Bible tells us about Satan
and we know that this is a fallen spirit,
an evil spirit, but it tells us this.
Jesus says in John 8 v. 44,
Year of your father the devil
and the lust of your father you will do.
He was a murderer from the beginning
and abode not in the truth
because there is no truth in him.
When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own
for he's a liar and the father of it.
Everything that Satan wants to do is to destroy.
To destroy.
And here, this unclean spirit
has entered into this boy at a child
and now he's a son.
We don't know his age exactly,
but the Bible tells us that oft times,
this is what happened.
Can you imagine?
What a terrible situation.
The father is distraught.
The father is desperate.
And he says, if thou canst do anything,
have compassion on us and help us.
Notice v. 23,
Jesus said unto him,
if thou canst believe,
all things are possible to him that believeth.
I love the response of this individual
in v. 24,
in straightway the father of the child
cried out and said with tears,
Lord, I believe!
Help thou mine unbelief.
He's saying everything within me,
I'm believing that You're able,
but Lord, help that part that's unbelief
and give me more faith.
Help me to believe more.
And we look at the situation
and we look at this interaction
that is recorded for us,
I believe that a second lesson
that we learn from the passage of Scripture
is this, and it's a lesson that we've all heard before,
and it's simply this,
our God is able to do anything.
Anything.
In Genesis 18 and v. 14,
God says to Abraham,
is anything too hard for the Lord?
We find that Jeremiah would declare
in Jeremiah 32 and v. 17,
he declares,
O Lord God, Thou hast made the heavens
and the earth by Thine outstretched hand
and nothing is too difficult for Thee.
Luke 1 and v. 37 says,
With God, all things are possible.
Paul says in Ephesians 3 and v. 20,
Now unto Him which is able to do
exceeding abundantly above
all that we ask or think.
And we learn this lesson this evening
from this passage of Scripture.
Number one, we learn from the inability
of the disciples that we better stop thinking
that we can do anything apart from the help of God.
We learn from the interaction that's recorded
between Jesus and the disciples
and this man and the Son.
We learn this valuable lesson
that nothing is too difficult for our God.
Our God is the God of the impossible.
And we find that throughout the Scriptures,
we have found various testimonies
and declarations of God's ability,
but we've not just seen the declarations of it,
we've seen the demonstrations of it.
We've seen where God has led His people
directly into difficulties
just so that He could show
that He is the God of the impossible.
God could have led the children of Israel
out of Egypt any way He wanted to,
but He led them directly to the banks of the Red Sea.
Why?
So that He could part it
and they could go over on dry ground.
That's the God that we serve.
That's amazing.
We find this evening
that just as this individual
and these characters within this particular account of Scripture,
they had to deal with some difficulties in their life.
And I don't know the number of years.
I don't know how bad it was.
I can only relate to some of what he said here.
I've never experienced any of this sort of thing.
But I find that he goes to the Lord.
He knows that God is able.
And Jesus tells him that if thou canst believe,
all things are possible to him that believeth.
Wow!
All things are God is able.
Number three, if you're taking notes,
I want you to notice the inquiry of the disciples.
Actually, let me stop.
Let me back up a moment.
We'll get to number three in a moment.
We mentioned the disappointed Savior,
the distraught Father.
I want you to notice the delivered Son.
We skipped over reading v. 25-27.
I got a little excited.
Notice what happens in v. 25.
When Jesus saw that the people came running together,
He rebuked the foul spirit saying unto Him,
Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee,
come out of him and enter no more into him.
V. 26, And the spirit cried and rent him sore
and came out of him, and he was as one dead,
insomuch that many said, He is dead.
But Jesus took him by the hand
and lifted him up and he arose.
You see the delivered Son.
You see the power of God.
You see here in these verses of Scripture
that God has authority.
He has power over Satan
and all of the evil spirits that exist.
We find that in Job's account,
as we look at the passage of Scripture
in the first few chapters of the book of Job,
that you find there that Satan comes
and he says the things that he says
and he's going to go through
and he's accusing and so on and so forth,
and God says, have you considered My servant Job?
He says, well, he serves you
because you've blessed him.
He says, well, you can do this, but you can't do this.
See, God has all power.
We understand the truth of 1 John 4,
for greater is He that is in you
than he that is in the world.
And this evening when we look at the interaction
and we find these great lessons
and we see the healing of this Son
that He's delivered,
I can't imagine the joy
that must have filled the heart
of this Father and this Son.
And you think about the influence
upon those that were gathered.
We find that the interaction is recorded for us.
Let's get to number three.
I mentioned already,
you notice in verse 28,
the inquiry of the disciples.
We've seen the inability of the disciples.
We've seen the interaction that's recorded.
Now we see the inquiry of the disciples.
I believe that verse 28
is both noteworthy and exemplary.
I'm actually taken back
by what happens in verse 28.
Because we find that as we follow the account
and see what's taking place,
that this man, he comes
and Jesus appears
after the Mount of Transfiguration.
They come. There's this great multitude.
This is what's going on.
What's the situation with the scribes
disputing so on and so forth.
This man comes and says,
hey, I brought my son to your disciples.
They couldn't do anything about it.
And he goes through this whole process.
He heals this boy.
And now they go to the home.
It appears, if you look in v. 28,
and he was coming to the house.
Notice, the Bible says that his disciples
asked him privately,
why could not we cast him out?
That's the inquiry of the disciples.
Why do I say it's noteworthy and exemplary?
Well, see, here's the deal.
They desired to know.
They desired to find out
why couldn't we do that?
Why is it that we were not able
to cast this demon, this foul spirit,
out of this man?
I think about this this evening,
that if you don't ask, you don't get an answer.
Have you ever attempted to do something in life and failed?
I'm sure you have.
And maybe we attempt to do something and we fail,
and we have too much pride
to ask somebody that knows,
why wasn't I able to do that?
Why were you able to do that,
but I wasn't able to do that?
Now, we understand on the spiritual realm here
what's happening,
and we look at what's taking place,
and notice, if the disciples did not ask the question,
I don't think they'd have gotten an answer.
We find here this evening that they ask this question.
They inquire.
And I think it's so important for us to understand
the approach of the disciples.
In fact, I would challenge you
as you read through the Gospel accounts,
you'll find on some occasions
where the disciples are there
and they have a question,
but they don't ask Jesus.
They don't ask Him.
But here, they say why?
Why could not we cast Him out?
Lesson number three this evening.
Lesson number one, we must stop thinking
we can do anything apart from the help of God.
Lesson number two,
that we understand that our God is able to do anything.
Lesson number three,
develop a teachable spirit.
Come to a place where we are willing
to come to God and say,
God, would You teach me?
Be willing to learn.
See, we're to have that teachable spirit.
Have you ever dealt with somebody in life?
Don't tell me who they are if you have.
But have you ever dealt with somebody
that just seems to know how to do everything already?
You say, hey, we're going to go do this.
Oh, I know how to do it.
Have you ever done it before?
No, but I know how to do it.
So I've done it a few times.
Can I show you?
No, I know how to do it.
And then you go back and find out
it's not done right.
See, we just got to have a teachable spirit.
What prevents me from having a teachable spirit?
Pride.
And so I find that the disciples,
they say, why could not we cast Him out?
Notice number four this evening.
Finally, the instruction of Jesus.
What good instruction it is.
I mean, it's only one verse of Scripture,
but wow!
The power of verse number 29.
The Lord answers the question of the disciples
when they say, why could not we cast Him out?
And He says to them,
this kind can come forth by nothing,
but by prayer and fasting.
We find that Jesus in answering
the question of the disciples
places an emphasis upon
and importance upon this subject matter
of prayer and fasting.
We find that today in the church of God
as we would look at the opportunity
that we have to pray,
what a great privilege it is,
but far too often,
prayer is neglected by the people of God.
It really is.
It's neglected.
But there's power in prayer.
I believe it was John R. Rice that said,
no prayer, no power.
Little prayer, little power.
Much prayer, much power.
It's a simple little quote
that he used to use all of the time
as he would preach on prayer.
And actually, John R. Rice wrote
a number of books on prayer.
And he's known as being a prayer warrior.
We find here that Jesus places
this emphasis upon the subject of prayer
and fasting, and we find that prayer
is too often neglected by the people of God.
And really, the reality this evening
is that rarely, if ever,
is the subject of fasting even discussed.
I believe this evening that as we look
at what's taking place,
we find that faith leads to prayer.
And then you see the coupling here
with fasting.
See, because I believe God
and because I believe that He's able,
because I learned that second lesson
that there's nothing too hard for Him,
then I go to Him in prayer.
Asking in faith.
Believing that He is able.
We find that we understand this evening
this truth of how our faith
would impact the way in which we pray.
I've often said that prayer
is the greatest expression of dependence
upon the Lord.
When I'm praying, I'm demonstrating
that I'm dependent upon Him.
And I'm believing that He's able.
Listen, we don't believe in praying
vain repetitions.
We're not just memorizing some prayer book
and just praying through these things.
No, we're communing with the God
of the universe.
We think about the subject of fasting,
I believe that fasting demonstrates
the seriousness of the individual.
The fact that the individual
would be willing to deny themselves
of something in order to seek God.
In order to seek Him.
You understand that often
when we speak about fasting,
we speak about it in the context of food.
We think about the subject of fasting
and it's not the idea that we're just,
I'm not going to eat for seven days
or for seven whatever,
or however long the period of time is.
No, the purpose of fasting
is not just to stop doing something,
but to seek God.
And we're seeking Him with a higher level
of seriousness and urgency
and we find here that Jesus
in responding to these disciples
and of course as it's been preserved
for us this evening,
we find that He says,
as they asked the question,
why could not we cast Him out?
And Jesus said to them,
this kind can come forth by nothing,
but by prayer and fasting.
He said in verse 19,
O faithless generation.
We find that He says,
this kind come forth by nothing,
but by prayer and fasting.
Remember as we've looked at the passage of Scripture,
we've understood some things
about the disciples this evening
with regard to this particular account.
Oh, how we need to be dependent upon the Lord
and not self-dependent.
When I'm self-dependent,
I will see its impact in my prayer life.
Because I just go through life
thinking I got it all.
I can handle it all.
But oh, how we need Him.
This evening as we've sought to look at a lesson
from each of our points this evening,
lesson one, that we would stop thinking
that we can do anything apart from God.
Lesson two, that we realize that our God
is able to do all things.
Lesson number three,
a lesson that we learn is that
here in the text of Scripture,
that we are to develop a teachable spirit.
In lesson number four,
that we recognize the importance of prayer and fasting,
but not simply to recognize the importance of it,
but to develop a consistent prayer life
and to practice fasting.
That we would understand the importance of this.
That we would see how the Lord is placing
this emphasis upon prayer and fasting this evening.
Again, as I mentioned,
prayer is often neglected by the people of God
and the subject matter of fasting is rarely discussed.
And yet Jesus said,
this kind can come forth by nothing
but by prayer and fasting.
This evening as we look at a passage of Scripture
and interaction between Jesus' disciples
and this man and his son,
I believe that we have the opportunity
to learn some valuable lessons.
And I trust that as we would seek
to learn valuable lessons from the Word of God,
that we would seek to implement those lessons
in our own lives.
That we would have our faith increase.
That we would recognize that man, our God is able.
If thou canst believe all things are possible
to him that believeth.
I believe this evening that our God is able
to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think.
I believe that he answers specific prayer.
I believe that there are times in which
we may shy away from praying specific prayers
because our faith is small.
We pray specific prayers,
we get to see God answer specifically.
And oh, how that increases our faith.
Lord bless them, I mean bless them good, Lord.
What does that mean?
You know what I mean?
And we pray specifically and we see God answer
and our faith is increased.
Oh, that we'd understand this evening
as these disciples inquired,
why couldn't we cast them out?
I know the text says, why could not we cast them out?
I'm glad they inquired.
Because we get to learn a lesson.
And I believe it's a valuable lesson.
This evening as we look
Look at this.
I hope that we'd apply these lessons in our lives.
Let's pray together.
Father, we love You.
We thank You so much for loving us.
We thank You for Thy Word
and the truth contained therein.
We thank You for this interaction,
this account that You've given us
of Mark 9.
Lord, we thank You for demonstrating Your power
over this unclean spirit
and healing this boy, this son.
We don't know his age.
We know that he had this unclean spirit
from a child.
Lord, we thank You for the inquiry of the disciples
and for the lesson that they were taught
and that we've been taught this evening.
Lord, we thank You that You are able.
I pray that as we live our lives,
as we seek Your face through prayer,
that God, we would trust You and believe You.
That we'd see You do great and mighty things.
We thank You for loving us.
We pray that You'd bless our time of prayer,
that all that's said and done,
that You alone would be glorified.
For it's in Christ's name we pray,
Amen.
If you do not have a prayer bulletin,
I could encourage you to go in the back
and grab one if you would like one.